Questions for HR
================


10 questions that you should ask the hiring manager/founder/HR during the hiring process to check fitment/reduce risk of failure

Business & Cash Flow Questions

These questions will help you judge the fundamentals of the business and to evaluate whether there is chance of layoffs/shutting down in near future

1) What is the current Gross Margin, Ebitda and PAT? In case of negative EBITDA and PAT, what is the path to profitability?

2) If company is loss making, what is the current runway? Runway= Cash in Bank/Monthly Burn

3) Is the role part of the core business or a new bet? If it is a new bet, what is the rationale to enter and what is the right to win in the category?

In difficult times, most layoffs happen in non core business roles and were basically wrong expansion decisions

4) What was the last round valuation? What was the revenue multiple that the round was raised? The more over-valued a startup is, the more difficult they will find to raise in future if things don’t go well


Wealth Creation

Joining a startup has its risks, and wealth creation is a big motivation for people to join despite the risks involved. These questions will give you an idea of whether you will make money if the startup is successful

5) What is the ESOP holding period? Ideal should be infinite

6) What is the ESOP vesting schedule? Ideal should be equally distributed over 4 years

7) What is the ESOP strike price? Ideal should be Rs 1

8) Is the current valuation fair? Very similar to investors, an employee’s chances of creating wealth goes up when they join a startup which is not overvalued. For startups not making profits, revenue multiple gives a good indicator of this


Culture

These questions should help you decide whether you will be a fit

9) What are the 3 non negotiable values for the startup? When was the last time they have taken major calls which had negative short term impact on business to stand up to these values?

10) What are the 3 things which could generally be considered not employee friendly, but is considered an acceptable behavior in the organization? (Eg- Office calls on Sunday). An organization will never change to accommodate an individual

A lot of startups might not be comfortable answering all of these questions, but if you want to commit prime years of your working life, the answers to these questions( whether direct or from your references) should be non-negotiable for you